This data science project series walks through step by step process of how to build a real estate price prediction website. We will first build a model using sklearn and linear regression using banglore home prices dataset from kaggle.com. 
Second step would be to write a python flask server that uses the saved model to serve http requests. 
Third component is the website built in html, css and javascript that allows user to enter home square ft area, bedrooms etc and it will call python flask server to retrieve the predicted price.
During model building I used almost all data science concepts such as data load and cleaning, outlier detection and removal, feature engineering, dimensionality reduction, gridsearchcv for hyperparameter tunning, k fold cross validation etc. 

Technology and tools used in this project are,

Python
Numpy and Pandas for data cleaning
Matplotlib for data visualization
Sklearn for model building
Jupyter notebook, visual studio code and pycharm as IDE
Python flask for http server
HTML/CSS/Javascript for UI
BACKGROUND STUDY
 Banglore house prediction is a predicting model that predict the price of house given some factores which generally have an influence on the price which include
    a. Area type
    b. Area size of the apartment
    c. The numbers of bedrooms and toilets
    d. Location
    e. Society
  Given this factors the model which predict the price of the house

DATA SOURCE
   All the data I used was gotten from kaggle
 https://www.kaggle.com/code/kavyaganji/bangalore-house-price-prediction/data?select=Bengaluru_House_Data.csv
 
TRANSFORMATION PROCESS
   1. The first thing I did was to drop all the empty columns and row cause it may result to bad learning to our model
   2. In the total square column, the data was given in range, so I have to split it into two tokens and and then getting the mean
   3. I grouped the locations that did not occur more than 10 into others
   4.  There are some records that are not realistic example, like having more that 6 bedrooms and the price is desame with one of two bedrooms giving all other parameters are desame.. I filtered out this type of records
   5. The computer only understand numbers so I converted each columns into one hot encoding, though I used the function dummies variable

 MODEL BUILDING
I used 3 models which are :
  Linear Regression which gives me 81% accuracy
   Lasso which gives me 68% accuracy
 And finally decision tree which gave me 71%

DEPLOYMENT APPROACH
I build a website which I diployed locally my computer 
I used HTML CSS and flask as the back end
https://github.com/Oloyedetoby/Ml_project/tree/main/BangloreHomePrediction/client


 KEY TAKEAWAY
With this model the price of real estate properties can be easily be predicted which in turn can let the consumer to have a glinch oh the price may be
